# <True connoisseur? Features that Decide the Qualify of a Good White Wine using Machine Learning Techniques>

## This project calculates the correlation between each feature in feature space, relationship between different features and white wine quality. It also includes machine learning components, including a LASSO decision tree model that helps predict the quality of the wine based on various features. 

## Running the project

## Prerequisites
Before running this project, make sure you have installed the following libraries:
- pandas
- numpy
- matplotlib
- seaborn
- Scikit-learn
- Flake8

## Running the code
To run the project, first you need to understand the preprocessing and normalization steps within the data_processing.py file. Then open the CSE163_final_project.py file in your Python environment and run the file. This file will implement the data preprocessing steps in the data_processing.py file and give the user several graphs and numbers (ML accuracy). Then run the testfile.py to check if our data processing section did the anticipated work. 

## The program will generate the following files:
- Correlation_graph.png
- features_subplot.png
- target_count.png
- balanced_target_count.png
- Accuracy.png
- validation_confusion_metrics.png
- test_confusion_metrics.png
- feature_importance.png
- Also a lot of numbers indicating the ML accuracy and best parameters.

These files contain the graphs generated by the program and the accuracy score of the machine learning model.

## Project files
- data_processing.py: A module that reads the data from a CSV file and preprocesses it.
- testfile.py: A module that contains unit tests for the data_processing module.
- CSE163_final_project.py: The main file that computes the graphs and performs machine learning.
- README.md: A file containing instructions on how to run the project.
- Report.pdf: a pdf file that contains the summary of our results.
- Cse163_utils.py: a python file we copy from class that enable us to do check on the output of the testfile.py

## Outputs
Correlation_graph.png:
This is a heat map, which presents the correlation between various features in feature space.

Features_subplot.png:
There are 11 subplots, which presents correlation between every feature and the quality of white wine.

Target_count.png:
This count plot presents the distribution of different qualities of white wines in all white wines.

Balanced_target_count.png:
There are two bars in the count plot. The count plot shows the distribution of good wine and bad wine. 1 on the X-axis means good white wine, and -1 on the X-axis means bad white wine.

Accuracy.png:
This is a 3D plot, because there are 2 inputs for each model specification.In this plot, we used a sklearn module that does this for us using k-fold validation.

Validation_confusion_metrics.png:
This is a table plot which is used to define the performance of a classification algorithm.

Test_confusion_metrics.png:
This is a table plot that is used to test the performance of a classification algorithm.

Feature_importance.png:
This is a histogram that we use to see which features have a significant impact on the quality of the white wine. 

## Acknowledgments
The dataset used in this project is from the UCI Machine Learning Repository.
URL: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Wine+Quality

If you have any questions: feel free to reach us through rliu8@uw.edu
Thank you! 
